[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
Paul Wallis is with us, an
internationally bestselling
author and paleocontact expert.
Now, he specializes in
researching ancestral narratives
for their insight into human
origins and human potential.
What a fascinating
field you're in, Paul.
>>PAUL WALLIS: Good day, George.
I absolutely enjoy it, and it's
a pleasure to be with you today.
>>NOORY: And you came and joined
us from Australia down under.
What is that?
A 15-hour flight?
>>WALLIS: It's 13 hours on
the main flight, and then
a couple of extra
hours to get here.
>>NOORY: What do you do
on a plane for 13 hours?
>>WALLIS: I try and read,
and I try and sleep.
>>NOORY: If you can sleep on a
plane, it's like time traveling.
>>WALLIS: Oh, it really is.
I left LA before I left Sydney
because of the time zone
differences.
It's amazing.
>>NOORY: Now, what
is a paleocontact?
>>WALLIS: Paleocontact
is two-word parts.
Contact is about contact
with other civilizations.
Paleo means, in the beginning.
So paleocontact is the
theory that our ancestors
had contact with other
species in the deep past.
>>NOORY: Now, when
you say other species,
what type are we talking about?
>>WALLIS: A whole range of
visitors from the stars,
from different regions.
>>NOORY: Star visitors.
Extraterrestrials.
>>WALLIS: Exactly.
>>NOORY: What is the current
situation with UFOs and ETs?
>>WALLIS: The current
situation would seem
to be that we are in contact.
Ancestral narratives suggest
we've always been in contact.
But what makes it so
current is that last year,
there was a very
public conversation
between the Pentagon and the US
Congress about present contact.
And what does the
Pentagon know about that?
>>NOORY: Are people taking
the ET situation a little more
seriously these days?
It seems to me
like they might be.
>>WALLIS: I think so.
Progressively, they are.
And credit where it's due.
That is in large part
due to the Pentagon,
which, five years ago now,
came forward and authenticated
what's known as The Program.
So for a long time, people who
follow the topic suspected,
had worked out that the Pentagon
has an R&D department that
works to reverse engineer
materials obtained
from UFO crashes.
>>NOORY: We've long
suspected that.
>>WALLIS: We've
long suspected it.
And then finally, in 2019, the
Pentagon came clean and said,
yes, it's true,
and we've had units
doing that for more
than seven decades.
So as soon as that
happened, it really
was a signal to people
all around the world
to sit up and take notice
and take it seriously
because it was an admission
that the UFO phenomenon is real
and that we have
contact with materials.
And then last year, in
that public conversation,
we find out it's not just
materials, it's entire craft.
We now know that 40 witnesses
from the military intelligence
community gave sworn
testimony to the inspector
general of the
intelligence community,
detailing what has been
retrieved, when, and where.
Entire craft--
where are they now?
That information was shared.
The names of the
people who've run
the program and the names
of the Pentagon officials
who've blocked disclosure.
All that was referred to in
public, in a televised hearing,
on July the 26th of last year.
So anyone following
the topic now
has a whole lot more
to take seriously.
>>NOORY: One of the
whistleblowers, David Grusch,
came forward to talk about
biologicals and all kinds
of incredible things.
Was he risking anything
doing what he did?
>>WALLIS: Well, yes, he was.
And he was attacked
by certain persons
within the military
intelligence community.
They tried to
discredit him and say
he's got a mental health
problem, which wasn't the case.
>>NOORY: Making everything up?
>>WALLIS: Yeah, as if
they could discredit him,
then the topic would go away--
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>WALLIS: --except
that David Grusch,
not only was he a
very credible figure,
he was the lead investigator
for the National Geospatial
Intelligence Agency's
UAP Task Force.
He had top secret clearances.
He was doing his work
with Pentagon authority
in order to feed
back to Congress.
What he brought
was authenticated
by those witnesses.
And Thomas Monheim,
the inspector general
of the intelligence
community, said
that David Grusch's complaint
that he had been blocked
was a credible
and urgent matter.
And it was Thomas Monheim's
work that escalated
it to become a public hearing.
>>NOORY: That's exciting.
>>WALLIS: It is, because
we've never had disclosure
at this level before.
We've never had it
in the public domain
that we have entire craft,
that we have pilots.
That we are analyzing,
not only metamaterials,
but non-human biologics,
to use David Grusch's term.
>>NOORY: Let's talk about
Paul Wallis for a moment.
Let's go back to the beginning.
What did you do for a career,
and how did you end up
doing what you're doing now?
>>WALLIS: Yes, my
background surprises people,
because people know me today
as the paleocontact guy.
But for 33 years, my work
was in church ministry.
So I was an archdeacon for the
Anglican church in Australia.
That's one down from a bishop.
I was a church doctor,
working with churches
in Australia and the UK.
And I was a
theological educator.
And it was that last role
really got me into paleocontact
because I was teaching pastors
how to interpret ancient texts.
How do we get out of the
texts what the writers put in
instead of misinterpreting
or reading things in.
And when I applied the skills
I was teaching to pastors, when
I applied those
skills to anomalies
in the biblical
stories, I realized
there was a whole other
layer of story hidden
in plain sight in the Bible.
And that when I went to the
root meanings of the key words,
the story that
emerged turned out
to be a summary form of
the ancient stories that
came from Mesopotamia--
so the Sumerian stories,
Babylonian, Akkadian,
and Assyrian.
And the red pill moment for
me was realizing those stories
are not God's stories.
They're stories
about sky people.
And so I had to ask
the question, where
do I go from here?
What does it mean that many
of my familiar god stories
are actually based on
stories of sky people?
And in the 21st century, we have
another word for sky people,
and it's extraterrestrials.
>>NOORY: So, not angels?
>>WALLIS: Well, angels,
you can use that word.
But the word angel doesn't tell
you what kind of being you're
looking at.
The word angel means that
someone on assignment, someone
with a message, but it
doesn't tell you biologically
what they are or what
their genesis is.
So some of the angel stories
from the past, I believe,
are stories of visitors from the
stars coming and assisting us.
>>NOORY: What got you
involved in the transition
from the ministry to
where you are today?
>>WALLIS: I suffered an injury.
In my first paleocontact
book, I refer to it
as an ultimate frisbee injury,
where I got injured in a game
and I'm invalided out.
>>NOORY: You got
hurt playing frisbee?
>>WALLIS: Ultimate frisbee
is rougher than frisbee.
It's like frisbee plus--
>>NOORY: I'm not
putting you down now.
What I mean, would somebody
flip something at you
and hit you in
the head, or what?
>>WALLIS: What
happened was my arch
collapsed because I wasn't
wearing the right footwear
and it stretched the ligament.
>>NOORY: Ouch.
>>WALLIS: And it created
a terrible problem.
I didn't work out for
ages when it happened.
And then I had to
do a lot of work
to correct the damage, which
is now affecting my hip, now
affecting my shoulders.
And so I talk about this
period where I'm invalided out
between pastorates.
And that gave me the
opportunity to go back
to all these funny little
anomalies in the Bible.
Things like, why does
God say, let us make?
Who's the us?
Let us make the humans to look
like one of us-- one of who?
All those sorts of questions
that preachers bump up against.
And I think, I must
get back to that
and work out what's
going on there.
And I finally did.
And that's when I discovered
the Sumerian stories
and realized there's
other information here
that we've missed.
>>NOORY: Do you know Lionel
Fanthorpe any chance, who is
an Anglican minister himself?
>>WALLIS: No, I don't.
>>NOORY: He's from
England, of course,
and but he has written
incredible stories.
We've got to get him
on the show one day.
His health has been
waning a little bit.
>>WALLIS: Well, look, there
are some great theologians
in the Anglican world.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Tell us about Pope
Benedict's symposium on ETs.
>>WALLIS: Well, that
was an amazing moment,
and it was something
that caught my attention.
And it made me think, I have
to get back to these anomalies
and study them.
I had suspected for a long time
there might be ETs in the Bible.
But what happened in 2009
was that Pope Benedict, who
was the most conservative
pope in my lifetime,
blew me away when he
called on the Pontifical
Academy of Sciences to
hold a symposium, which
was called a colloquium.
And that's the top theologians,
top scholars coming together
to discuss--
and they made it public
what they were discussing--
the theological
implications of contact
with other civilizations.
>>NOORY: And he
said, belief in ETs
does not negate
your belief in God.
>>WALLIS: That's exactly right.
And he had top authorities step
forward, do press conferences.
And we had about a year's
lead in where everybody
knew this was going to happen.
And before and after, we heard
the experts for the Vatican
say we should not be surprised
to encounter extraterrestrials
because they're in
the Bible, they're
in the Old Testament
and the New Testament.
>>NOORY: Monsignor
Balducci, I think.
>>WALLIS: Monsignor Balducci
said something very powerful.
He said, people who
have had close encounter
experiences, he said those
are not demonic experiences
and they're not
psychotic breaks.
Those are encounters with a
totally different kind of being,
one that merits serious study.
And then it was Father
Gabriel José Funes, who
was the director of the
Vatican Observatory,
said we should be ready to
embrace brother and sister
aliens.
Their presence just
means the creator has
been busier than we thought.
And so the signal was, we
should be ready for contact.
And they seem to
set the expectation.
This could be happening,
and the phrase they used
was, sooner than anyone expects.
>>NOORY: That's exciting.
>>WALLIS: And they
didn't want people
to be blown out of the
water with this realization.
They needed to know
that the concept of God
is big enough to embrace
a populated cosmos.
>>NOORY: Well, you
must love what you do.
>>WALLIS: I do.
It really energizes me.
I think this is the
part of my career
that I've enjoyed more than
anything else I've done.
>>NOORY: Paleocontact
is an interesting word.
Is it a new phrase?
>>WALLIS: I can't remember
where I first heard it.
I find it--
>>NOORY: You don't
hear it a lot.
>>WALLIS: No.
I think it's a helpful word
because when people ask me,
what do you do?
If I say paleocontact, they
then ask me to explain it.
>>NOORY: Over their head and--
>>WALLIS: So it's
better for me to say
that than to say aliens, UFOs.
Because for some people, that's,
OK, I'm not going to listen now.
>>NOORY: That's a
turnoff to some.
>>WALLIS: It can be.
>>NOORY: But to many,
maybe it is not either.
>>WALLIS: No.
I think given
permission, far more
people are interested and aware
of than we would ever imagine.
>>NOORY: Why do you think
there's this interest with ETs
coming here?
>>WALLIS: I think there are
a number of reasons now.
My field is really
ancestral narratives.
Indigenous stories--
>>NOORY: Which is what?
>>WALLIS: So when we listen to
folklore from around the world,
so the things that are
not taught in school
but are carried by the
traditional cultures,
that's where you have this
other layer of information.
And they talk about visitors
coming for all kinds of reasons.
So they talk about
colonization in the past
by beings who came here
because they wanted
to exploit Earth in the same way
we invade each other's countries
on Earth.
But then others who
came to help us,
to help the human race to
evolve and progress and make
great leaps forward.
And there's this whole
spectrum of experiences
referenced by our
ancestors in the deep past.
And I find that gives a
very different perspective
on what might be
happening in the present.
>>NOORY: There is a video
that came out a year
and a half ago
called the Tic Tac
UFOs taken by pilots
from the USS Nimitz
off the coast of California.
Clearly, objects that
are buzzing and zooming.
What do you think that was?
>>WALLIS: It's
fascinating listening
to the pilots who were deployed
to engage with those craft.
They couldn't-- the abilities of
those craft far exceed anything
we have.
>>NOORY: Maneuvers
were incredible.
>>WALLIS: Absolutely, and
it's amazing to watch it.
So many people have been able
to see that now on YouTube.
And what the pilots were saying
is, first of all, these crafts
seem to ping into our
airspace as if from nowhere.
And that suggests
they've mastered
space-time manipulation.
And then the way they moved
in the sky, they said,
was almost like a creature,
almost like an insect.
And it was as if
they were dealing
with something that
was alive rather
than a piece of technology
that was being piloted.
And I think that relates
very interestingly to what
some of the
physicists are saying
who are working in
the program right
now trying to reverse-engineer
materials from craft like that.
>>NOORY: Do you know of
something called The Program?
>>WALLIS: Yes, The
Program is the nickname,
as it were, of the
Pentagon's R&D department
seeking to reverse-engineer
what they call metamaterials.
And so Eric W. Davis is one of
the physicists working on that.
And he talks about off-world
vehicles not made on this Earth.
We're studying those craft,
we're studying the fabric
from which they're
made, and we're
trying to reverse-engineer it.
The Program is the
name for that R&D work.
>>NOORY: The late Colonel Philip
Corso talked about reverse
engineering that happened
way back in the 1940s.
Was it really going on then?
>>WALLIS: I believe so.
We retrieved materials in 1947--
>>NOORY: Roswell.
>>WALLIS: --from Roswell.
>>NOORY: Cape Girardeau.
>>WALLIS: So clearly, we've
been working on those.
But in my book, "The
Invasion of Eden,"
I suggest that human beings have
been trying to reverse-engineer
alien tech for
thousands of years.
And I find hints of that in
the Bible and hints of it
in Mayan story.
>>NOORY: Was this
reverse-engineered technology,
Paul, given to us, or
did we stumble into it?
>>WALLIS: Oh, that's
a great question.
I think in the present, we
have been given some stuff.
It's not just crashes and
we've picked up pieces.
I think we've been
given some materials
to work with in the present.
I think in the past,
it was not that way.
It was things we
stumbled across,
things we saw our visitors
using, and we thought,
we want to do that.
We want to know how to fly.
We want to know how to
do remote communication.
And so there are clues that
the [NON-ENGLISH] dynasty
in the Yucatan Peninsula were
trying to engineer a Bluetooth
device, for instance.
Or in the Bible, we have
the Urim and Thummim,
which they tried to reproduce
a communications device they'd
seen the Elohim used.
But in the present,
I think what's
happening is collaboration.
And there are some
pretty significant voices
who have spoken in those
terms in the last few years.
>>NOORY: Do you think every
president of the United States
was aware of this
relationship with ETs?
>>WALLIS: No.
I think President
Truman was aware.
Eisenhower was aware.
And from that time
to this, we've
had layers and layers
of top secret protocols
which have kept a
lot of information,
even from US presidents.
And we know that
presidents have asked
to have a full briefing on
ET contact on The Program.
And they've been told, that's
on a need-to-know basis, sir,
and they've not been told.
>>NOORY: After FDR passed
and Truman became president,
and of course, was the
one who dropped the bomb
on Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
Might that have been
an impetus for the ETs
to want to get a hold of him?
How did he get involved in this?
>>WALLIS: I think
it was because it
was after the nuclear
detonations at Trinity,
Nagasaki, Hiroshima.
All of a sudden, our
airspace was full of UFOs.
There was a massive acceleration
of contact experiences.
And of course, within months of
the Roswell incident in 1947,
President Truman is signing
the National Security Act,
which set up all the protocols
for making research into the UFO
phenomenon top secret.
And he signed that
act, funnily enough,
off planet on Air
Force One of the day,
a plane called the Sacred Cow.
And I think it was
done because they
knew they needed to press
on and to understanding
what was happening.
I think there was contact at
a covert government level,
but it all had to be
behind closed doors.
>>NOORY: There were rumors that
then-President Eisenhower was
the one who
initiated the program
and actually met with the ETs.
Have you heard or
uncovered anything there?
>>WALLIS: I talk about this
in "The Invasion of Eden."
And I've got an endorsement on
the cover from Laura Eisenhower
just to clue people
that I'm going there.
I go to that story
because it's been
an urban legend for a
long time, that Eisenhower
had a face-to-face
meeting with visitors
and that he established
the alliances that
had been in place from
that time to this.
My impression is he was being
read into a matrix of agreements
that had already been made,
decisions that had been
made under President Truman.
>>NOORY: When you
read the Bible,
you see strange events that have
happened-- the tower of Babel,
Sodom and Gomorrah.
Were these ET involvements?
>>WALLIS: I believe they were.
I mean, the Bible talks about
these mysterious beings,
the Elohim.
And that word is often
translated as god,
but at root, it means
the powerful ones.
And as a group, they're
summarized as the savior
hashamayim, that
means the sky armies.
So that gives us an idea,
that first impression.
And then we're given details
of the weaponry that they had,
the [NON-ENGLISH] the
[NON-ENGLISH] which were weapons
of mass destruction in effect.
And you have the stories
that you just mentioned,
where entire cities are
bombed into oblivion.
And in Genesis 11, the Tower
of Babel, a whole civilization
bombed into oblivion.
And the Babel story, when you
read that alongside the Sumerian
version, you realize what
we're looking at is not
a building that's breached
building codes because it's
too tall.
We're actually
looking at a stargate.
We're looking at planet Earth
moving into a spacefaring era,
and then visiting Elohim
say, we don't want that.
And they bomb that
civilization out of existence
as if they don't want
that staging post
in this part of the galaxy.
>>NOORY: And they gave us
fair warning, too, did they?
>>WALLIS: I would
not say there's
any such thing as a fair
warning when they're
going to obliterate
your civilization, which
is what they did.
And some people might look at
that and think, oh, my goodness,
is that us today?
Because we're on the brink
of becoming spacefarers.
Are we going to be invaded?
Are we going to be bombed?
And I think, no, we're in a more
interesting period of history
than that.
And I think we've got
more helpers on the scene
now than we had in Genesis 11.
>>NOORY: Paul, where
are they coming from?
The Pleiades, the
Sirius star system,
where are they coming from?
>>WALLIS: Well, you've mentioned
two of the top three regions
of space that our ancestors
spoke about when they talked
about visitors or invaders.
And I was blown away when I
was reading the book of Job.
When I was researching
for "Escaping from Eden,"
the book of Job, many
scholars believe,
is the oldest book in the Bible.
Some scholars
believe it's actually
an Arabic piece of
literature that's
found its way into the Bible.
And there's a verse
in that book that
talks about power dynamics
between Earth and Sirius, Earth
and the Pleiades,
Earth and Orion.
And when I read that
verse, my jaw dropped.
Because as I listened
to Indigenous narratives
from around the world, those
are the three regions of space
that keep getting mentioned.
What's exciting to me about
that is that the Pleiades,
they are always mentioned
in ancestral story
as the place from
which our helpers came.
When they talk about
our great leaps
forward in material science,
our great leap forward
into agriculture or becoming
city builders, civilization
builders, the Pleiades is
where our helpers came from.
And I believe they have
a parental relationship
towards us, and I think
that's still in place today.
>>NOORY: Paul, what can you tell
us about the Israeli Brigadier
General Haim Eshed,
who has talked
about a relationship
between ETs and humankind?
>>WALLIS: Well, he is
a fascinating figure.
He was, for 28 years, Israel's
chief of space security.
He oversighted the--
>>NOORY: He was the guy.
>>WALLIS: He was the guy to
know if we were in company,
and if that
represented a threat.
And then just before Christmas
2020, he stepped up to the mic
and he said on the basis of
his privileged information
over those 28 years,
his understanding
is that we are already in
contact at a covert government
level, and he specified
the governments of the USA
and of Israel.
And that we've been
involved in collaborations
for more than 70 years.
>>NOORY: What took him so long?
>>WALLIS: I think he had to
reach an age where he was no
longer frightened, where he
had made his contribution--
>>NOORY: He wouldn't
lose his pension.
>>WALLIS: --he wouldn't
lose his pension,
he wouldn't lose his job, he's
not looking for promotion.
And I think, finally,
he felt free enough
that he could say, look,
this is my understanding.
But he said, as part
of his statement,
if he had made this statement
only a few years before,
he would expect to have been
ferried off to a hospital.
But things have
shifted, and there
is more disclosure happening
all around the world that
meant not only could
he make that statement,
but he could publish an
entire book on the topic--
"The Universe
Beyond The Horizon."
>>NOORY: I love that.
>>WALLIS: It's a
great title, isn't it?
>>NOORY: It sure is.
>>WALLIS: And he talks
about collaboration.
And, again, that suggests, no,
we're not about to be invaded,
something more
interesting is going on.
And I think there's
a potential here
for us to experience
another massive leap forward
as the human race
because we have
this kind of contact happening.
>>NOORY: Paul, if
disclosure comes,
will it come from governments?
Will it come from the ETs?
Where do you think it will come?
>>WALLIS: Well, this
was another thing
very interesting about
what Haim Eshed said,
because his understanding
is that the policy
of non-disclosure is defined
at the level of our ET visitors
and at the level of
covert government.
Our visitors are saying
they won't self-disclose
until you and I have a better
understanding of what space is
and what spaceships are.
And that's a hint that
they're waiting for us
to reach a technological bar
where we can reverse-engineer
these materials that
enable us to make
interstellar travel possible.
Once we do that, we change from
being the studied, the observed,
the abducted, to being
fellow spacefarers.
And when our visitors see that
has happened, that we've all
been brought into
that picture, that
is when they expect
to self-disclose.
So there's a bit of a
subtle dance between the two
in defining when that happens.
>>NOORY: There seems to be a
concern by some of our Congress
people about all of this.
What have you heard
in that arena?
>>WALLIS: Well, certainly at
that hearing on July 26 in 2023,
we heard from
members of Congress
who were concerned that what we
are seeing when we watch the Tic
Tacs, for instance, could
represent a military threat.
And so they asked
the witnesses--
David Fravor, Ryan
Graves, David Grusch--
do these craft represent
a military threat?
And they had to say potentially.
Potentially because we
can't shoot them down.
>>NOORY: Maybe.
>>WALLIS: But it's
us shooting at them.
It's not the other way around.
And so, again, I think that
what we're experiencing
suggests a more
benevolent contact
than many people are fearing.
But we did hear from Tim
Burchett, Andy Ogles questions
really along the lines of,
how scared should we be?
And in "The Invasion of
Eden," I'm saying, yes,
our ancestors spoke about
scary things, invasions.
But if we look at the whole
spectrum of their experiences,
there was a lot of
positive that flowed
from our contact
with our visitors--
massive leaps forward
in technology,
in culture, and
even in heightening
our cognitive abilities.
And I think if we do
more careful diplomacy
with our visitors, think
carefully about all the factions
who may be present,
the potential is there
for another great leap forward.
And that's what we
should be looking for.
Instead of saying how
scared should we be,
the question should
be, how do we
leverage this moment
in a way that is
good for the whole of humanity?
>>NOORY: Not every culture
thinks these visitations
are hunky-dory and friendly.
The Hawaiians, for example,
talk of ancient invasions
and abductions.
What have you
heard in that area?
>>WALLIS: Well, the abduction
narrative is global.
You can go to any
culture in the world
and you will hear, at the
folkloric level, stories
of abduction.
So Scotland, for
instance, in the 1600s,
Robert Kirk wrote about
abductions that were being
experienced at that time.
So that's disturbing,
that's worrying.
And you mentioned the
Hawaiian narratives of Mo'o.
When I listen to traditional
guardians of Hawaiian culture,
when they talk about the coming
of the Mo'o, what's interesting
is they talk about invasion.
But not in terms of
craft in the sky,
they talk about cultural shifts.
And they say, if there's
been a covert invasion,
an annexation, then just
watch out for these things.
And they talk about separating
people from the land
to the point where we can't
live so independently,
so self-sufficient.
They talk about an
atomization of society,
where people are
polarized and live
in competition with each other.
They talk about a
shift of society
where we no longer
work for each other,
we are all working
for superiors.
Where there's a machinization
of how populations are managed.
And the stories of
the Mo'o say, look
out for that, beware of
that, but remember the power
that we have.
We can build our culture
from the grassroots up.
We don't have to have
everything defined
by the 1% of the 1%,
whether they're ETs
or bankers or anyone else.
>>NOORY: There was a 17th
century Scottish Presbyterian
minister named Robert Kirk.
What was his
involvement in this?
>>WALLIS: Well, I find
Robert Kirk fascinating.
He, like me, was a minister
and had a great enthusiasm
for Bible translation.
He was a Presbyterian minister
in Aberfoyle, Scotland.
This was a very conservative
time, the 1600s.
Presbyterian church--
>>NOORY: Way back.
>>WALLIS: Way back.
And Presbyterian was
pretty conservative.
And they observed his
Bible translations,
which they said were a bit too
open-minded for the Presbyterian
church.
And what they meant by
that he went to the root
meanings of key
words and produced
stories that sounded a lot
less religious and a bit more
mystifying.
So that was his
white rabbit that
led him into the topic of
paleocontact in the Bible.
But the other aspect
was he was a pastor,
and he listened to the
experience of the locals.
And he realized that
when the locals talked
about elves, fauns,
fairies, they weren't
telling cute bedtime stories.
They were telling stories
about experiences they
and their ancestors had had
that really worried them.
>>NOORY: They were scared.
>>WALLIS: They were scared.
They were scared
about abduction.
They were scared about an
influence on government
that seemed to be non-human.
And they spoke
about the Sith, who
had no compassion
towards human beings,
but seemed to have this great
influence over kings and queens
and parliaments.
And they didn't like it.
They were worried by it.
And Robert Kirk was
really their champion
in making those stories public.
And he wrote this book,
"The Secret Commonwealth,"
in which he argued that no
understanding of the world is
complete until we realize
there is a non-human layer
to the management
of Project Earth.
And it was a very brave
thing that he did given
the period when he was writing.
>>NOORY: Paul, you're involved
in a film with Matthew LeCroy.
Tell us about that.
>>WALLIS: Oh, yes.
This is going to
be a great year.
So Matt and I and a
team of researchers
will be traveling to Egypt,
Turkey, Bolivia, and Peru.
And we're probing
the information
that is recorded
in the artifacts
of those ancient cultures
and in the carvings
that they've left behind.
And in particular, I'm really
interested in what we're going
to find in ancient Armenia.
And I've come to believe--
>>NOORY: Armenia, how come?
>>WALLIS: Ah, well, so much
happened in ancient Armenia.
It has one of the world's
most ancient languages.
So there's information carried
by the language itself.
It's the place I believe
Abraham came from in the Bible,
which is quite a controversial
thing for me to say,
but I argue this in
"The Invasion of Eden."
And if we look at the carved
symbology in ancient Armenia,
I believe it gives us eyes on
what the Elohim of the Bible
looked like, what the Anunna
of the Sumerian stories
looked like.
We're in the region
of Haldi, so this
is Ur of Haldi, the
high place of Haldi.
>>NOORY: What did
they look like?
>>WALLIS: Some of them looked
very much like us, but bigger.
Some of them had avian
features, some of them
had reptilian features.
>>NOORY: Insectoids?
>>WALLIS: No insectoids
that I've spotted to date.
But what's interesting
about these figures
is what they were doing.
And it seems, when you go
to the figure of Haldi,
he's doing a number of things.
First of all, he's
arrived as a colonizer.
His name means taken,
so he's a conqueror.
But when we look
at the symbology,
it looks like he's rebooting
the ecology of the region.
It looks like he's providing
a cognitive upgrade
for the people who live there.
And he's doing it in
the place associated
with our planet's repopulation
after the most recent planetary
cataclysm.
>>NOORY: Are the ET
contacts friendly or not?
>>WALLIS: I think there is
always a mix of experience.
So if you talk to present
experiences, experience-ers,
some people will
describe encounters
that were harrowing
and terrifying,
and they don't want
to talk about it
to remember it.
But a great many talk about
experiences that were elevating,
inspiring.
And after those
experiences, many people
have heightened
cognitive abilities.
They have experiences
of precognition.
And Robert Kirk,
writing in the 1600s,
observed exactly
the same phenomenon.
And so there's a lot of contact
happening in the present, just
the same as in the past, that
suggests a benevolent presence
here to support humanity
through whatever changes
might be down the track.
>>NOORY: If you read the Bible
and inject ET visitations
instead of biblical phrases,
it makes a lot of sense,
doesn't it?
>>WALLIS: It does.
And all you've got to
do, a lot of the time,
is leave certain
terms untranslated.
So if you leave
Elohim untranslated,
Yahweh untranslated, El
Shaddai untranslated,
Ruach, Kavod, there are
these other key words.
and then watch how those
words behave in the text,
it becomes very
clear when you're
looking at an invasion, when
you're looking at colonization,
when you're looking
at a human upgrade.
And this is when the
ancient stories really
resurface in the Bible.
And I believe the Bible is
one of the most rich sources
of paleocontact story
that we have in the world.
>>NOORY: The witnesses
saw amazing things
and they put them in the Bible.
>>WALLIS: Yes, they did.
And what they
describe is described
in other cultural tellings.
You can go to Nigeria, you
can go to the Zulu people,
go to Mesoamerica, go
to the Philippines.
You will hear the
same stories repeat.
And it fascinates
me because it's not
a story that's gone around
the world in Chinese whispers.
They all have their own
language, their own metaphor.
And it seems to me, they
all saw the same thing
and experienced similar
things and found their own way
to carry that memory.
And it's the overlap that
really gets my attention.
>>NOORY: Are these
biblical stories
about benevolent ET contact,
or some serious invasions?
>>WALLIS: The whole spectrum
is there in the Bible.
So on the one hand, you've got
the savior hashamayim, the sky
armies with all their
weaponry, but then you've
also got stories of beings
like Dagon and Asherah.
And Asherah is the
Hebrew memory of helpers
who came and taught us what
plants are good for food, which
are good for medicines,
which are good to avoid,
which are good for
higher consciousness.
Asherah taught us how to farm
and build cities and become
a civilization.
And so the whole
spectrum of experiences
is there in the Bible.
And the authors guaranteed
that information will never
be forgotten.
>>NOORY: Sounds like
it's a mixed bag.
>>WALLIS: It's a very mixed bag.
>>NOORY: Can people,
Paul, influence
what's happening behind closed
doors with these ET stories?
Or are they just
left on the outside?
>>WALLIS: That's
a great question.
Because when we look at the
secrecy around The Program,
we can feel very
disempowered and think, well,
what can I do to define whether
it's a great leap forward
or an invasion?
But what our ancestors say, and
you can find this in the Bible
as well, is that
contact isn't just
happening behind closed
doors with corporate types
and politicians.
From the grassroots up, people
are having contact experiences
all around the world.
And I think we need to take
that seriously and realize
that the company we have
is interested in all of us,
is interested in
progressing our experience.
And I think if we can engage
with that from the grassroots
up, that's the best way we can
do what's called exopolitics.
That's the best way
we can do diplomacy.
We don't just have to
leave it to the higher ups
to get everything right.
>>NOORY: What do you think
the abduction situation is?
What is that?
>>WALLIS: I think it's happening
for a number of reasons.
There are stories
told that suggest
that visitors have come
here because they find
human beings very attractive.
So in Genesis--
>>NOORY: We are.
>>WALLIS: I think we're hot.
In Genesis 6, it says
that, explicitly,
that the Bene Elohim
found human females hot.
And they said, we want some
of that in our gene pool.
Why do they want what we
have in their gene pool?
I happen to think
there's something
unique about the blend of
animal strength, mammal
emotion, our capacity
to carry consciousness
that is very attractive
to some of our visitors.
And it's either that they
have a small gene pool
and they need to
strengthen their species,
or that they've been
here quite a long time
and they want their descendants
to be better adapted for Earth
than they are.
And it's not necessarily that
they're wanting to take over.
They just want their descendants
to have an easier time on Earth
than they've had.
And those two aspects, I
think, are part of the story.
>>NOORY: Is there a
covert relationship, Paul,
between the ETs and
government as it directly
relates to the alien
abduction phenomenon?
>>WALLIS: Well,
that's a good question
because when Haim Eshed
talked about collaborations
and supporting our
visitor's research,
that was my first question--
research into what?
Is that research into us?
Is that an abduction
agreement that's been made?
And I don't have any
information on that.
I just suspect that is
part of the picture.
>>NOORY: That's unfriendly.
>>WALLIS: Yes, it is unfriendly.
Except when you listen
to stories, for instance,
out of Kenya or Ghana, when
they tell their stories
of abduction-- it's the
same in Wales as well,
and the Philippines--
they say that the people who are
taken are not taken by force.
That the visitors who meet
them are beautiful visitors
who lure people with
promises of advancement.
You'll have an amazing time.
We'll go places you
couldn't imagine.
And when people
come back, which is
the amazing thing about
the experience in Ghana,
for instance, this is
the Mami Wata tradition.
And I have very close
contact with people
who've had these experiences.
They come back saying,
actually, I like our visitors.
I hated the fact, I
couldn't contact my family
for the three years I was
away, but they're actually
beautiful people.
They were actually very
beautiful and gentle with me.
Other than the fact I had
to be there for three years
and I had to have
children while I was away.
So it's a blended story.
It's not a black-and-white
story of goodies and baddies.
It's a more subtle
story than that.
Difficult for us to
do business with.
And when people come
back saying those things,
it confuses their families.
And they think this is Stockholm
syndrome, where you fall
in love with the kidnapper.
But that's the story
many return with.
That they are beautiful visitors
and actually quite like them,
and I missed them now
that I'm not with them.
>>NOORY: Are people being taken
though without their will?
>>WALLIS: I think if
we listen to the story
of the Mo'o and the Ahumanu
from out of Hawaii, that
suggests some people are
taken against their will.
And I suspect that's a
different demographic
that we're dealing with.
And I think that's,
again, why it's important
that we recognize we've got
a spectrum of company here,
and we need to be very careful
and thoughtful about who we're
doing business with, who
our alliances are with,
who's best placed
to support humanity,
who's best placed to defend us,
who understands us the best.
And that's why I would like
to know a little bit more
about who's representing
us in these conversations
and in whose interests
decisions are being made.
Because I do think we need
very subtle conversations, very
subtle diplomacy to ensure we
get the best possible outcome
for the human race.
>>NOORY: How much does
the Pentagon know, Paul?
>>WALLIS: Well, that is
the $64,000 question.
The Pentagon, of
course, is a community.
And one of the things
that David Grusch exposed
with his complaint
is that you've got,
or about 17 departments
not talking to each other.
So in secret services,
there's a really strong policy
of compartmentalization,
subsidiarity so
that if this unit over
here makes this discovery,
this unit over here won't
know anything about it.
And so the Pentagon
as a whole might not
have that embrace of a picture.
And part of what David
Grusch was suggesting
with his complaint
is that we really
need a global
understanding of what's
happening within
the Pentagon, and we
do need to consider what's
the legality of keeping
that information from our
elected representatives.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look at
the cover of your new upcoming
book.
Tell us about it.
>>WALLIS: Well, "The
Invasion of Eden"
really explores everything
we've been talking about.
My field is studying ancestral
narratives, Indigenous
story from around the world.
And "The Invasion of Eden" asks,
if we listen to our ancestors--
>>NOORY: Great
title, by the way.
>>WALLIS: Oh, thank you.
Did they have some wisdom to
offer us in the 21st century
for how we take our steps
forward with the contact we have
today?
And it's a quite thick book.
So, obviously, the answer
is yes, our ancestors
have a lot of wisdom that
we need to be tapping.
>>NOORY: When do you predict
we get our disclosure?
>>WALLIS: I think we're
going to see an acceleration
in the next months and years.
There was a rapid
progress last year
with how much information
was in the public domain.
But when you listen to
that hearing on July 26,
we reached some moments
where David Grusch
and the other witnesses
are asked a question
and the answer is, I can answer
that in a closed session.
That would have to be
addressed in a SCIF.
>>NOORY: Privately.
>>WALLIS: Privately.
And so an example
would be he's talking
about non-human biologics,
does that mean people?
He's talking about pilots.
We have pilots.
>>NOORY: Something
more nefarious?
>>WALLIS: So pilots, does
that mean they're alive?
Does that mean we're
in communication?
Well, that would
have to be in a SCIF.
And I think some of the
information that was in a SCIF
is going to become public
in the months ahead.
I think we're going to follow
the same formula as with the Tic
Tac video.
I think what's
going to happen is
there's going to be
a semi-official leak
of information.
The Pentagon will watch
for a couple of years
to see how the public responds.
And then when there's
no panic, the Pentagon
will say, yes, we
authenticate that.
But I think the
kind of information
that's going to come out
is going to be even more
Earth-shattering.
>>NOORY: How do people
get a hold of you, Paul?
>>WALLIS: You can go to
paulanthonywallis.com.
That's my website.
You can watch me
on the5thkind.com.
Go to YouTube, you can watch
the Paul Wallis channel.
And you can find
my books on Amazon.
>>NOORY: Paul, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>WALLIS: Thanks George.
It's been a real pleasure.
>>NOORY: One day
we'll get disclosure.
And we can thank people like
Paul Wallis, who went down
the path to get us the answers.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]